- [Instructor] Now let us understand
Async Processing at Work.
Firstly, this capability forms a part of
Serviet 3.2 specification and Spring MVC
has integrated itself very well with it.
As a part of this mechanism, what happens is
that there are separate threads.
One for request processing and the other
for the heavy lifting inside the application.
How do we enable this in our Spring MVC App?
Well, it's very simple.
There's a flag called Async Supported.
If you set that to True, then you have this
enable in your application.
We have created a project of Spring MVC
using Spring Boot so that's already done for us
by default, it's already set to True.
In addition to enabling this capability,
you've to make sure that your controller classes
return either of the following from their methods.
A Callable or a DeferredResult.
By far all the controllers that we have designed
for Hplus Application, the methods there
return a String kind of a value
and that is just the name of the view
that we go back with.
However, if you want to inject Async Processing
capability to your application,
then you need to return a Core Label of String
or a DeferredResult of String.
Right, so now that you've enabled and done
everything right in your code,
let's understand how will it work under the Hood.
So now if a Request comes in,
Thread-1 will be created from the
Servlet Container for Request Processing.
Thereafter, since you enabled
MVC Asyncchronous Processing,
Thread-2 which is another Thread is spawned
by the Spring MVC Task Executor.
Once that happens, Thread-1 going to dedicate
all the responsibility to Thread-2,
and Thread-2 in turn is going to call
those blocking services for your application.
Now because of this, Thread-1 is freed
and can serve any other incoming SUTP request
for your application.
So when you enable this and a capability
of Asynchronous Processing, your controllers
of course return Call Label
or Default Result types.
Because of that, when Thread-1 dedicates
the responsibility to Thread-2,
the Dispatches servlet and all of it's associated
filters will exit Thread-1.
The response however, is still kept open
because Thread-2 has not completed
the execution of those Blocking calls.
Once it's done with those calls,
then the call label is going to produce a result.
Or your application will set a value
to that default result.
Those are the result types.
Once that's done, then the request is handed back
to the Servlet container
and at this point in time, the Dispatches Servlet
and all the filters are invoked again
to carry the Response-1 back to the client.
So that is exactly what happens as a part
of the Asynchronous Processing feature.
In the next video, we will actually inject
this capability of Asynchronous Processing
in Hplus and look for the results ourselves.